# Communication

We cannot say enough about this. Good communication is a hallmark of any successful organization. If at any point you have questions regarding the program or your son's participation in it, feel free to contact any uniformed leader, the Scoutmaster, or committee chairman. We may not have an immediate answer  for you, but will work diligently to obtain one. If you are not satisfied with the answer you receive, we can  provide you with the names of the troop's chartered organization representative, unit commissioner, or district executive, who can assure that your concerns are fairly and appropriately resolved.

Much of the communication goes in the other direction. You can expect to hear from the troop leadership  in many ways. Weekly emails are pretty common alerting to deadlines and upcoming meetings and events.

In regular weekly troop meetings, the first few minutes are used for "enrichments." Where appropriate, handouts are also distributed at this time. Just like information from school, "enrichments" are quickly forgotten and handouts sit in the bottom of the backpack until they are removed for the next school year. Please inquire often if there is something your son needs to tell you, you may be surprised by the answer.  Encourage your Scout to utilize technology to communicate with his adult leaders. Do not send  correspondence to adult leaders on your Scout's behalf.

The troop planning calendar contains most troop events, laid out up to six months in advance. Our latest means of communication is the troop home page on the World Wide Web. Computer equipped Scouts or  their families can find us at [troop3740.com](http://www.troop3740.com). The web site is password protected and you will have to be approved by the webmaster before gaining access.

We also utilize Troopmaster software which contains a wealth of information which includes: each Scout's personal information, advancement, merit badges, attendance of troop meetings, and outings, etc. From time to time, information is synced from Troopmaster to Scoutbook and the BSA Advancements websites. We recognize that the Web is a public medium, it is our policy to not provide youth contact information or other private data in that forum. With that constraint, we welcome suggestions in how the Web site can best provide the information you want and need.
